.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH  fwb_ipfw  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_ipfw \- Policy compiler for ipfw
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_ipfw
.B [-vVx]
.B [-d wdir]
.B [-o output.fw]
.B [-i]
.B -f data_file.xml
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_ipfw
is a firewall policy compiler component of Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). This compiler generates code for ipfw - a firewall and
traffic shaper in FreeBSD (see ipfw(8)). Compiler reads objects
definitions and firewall description from the data file specified with
"-f" option and generates firewall configuration and activation
script.

The generated file has a name that starts with the name of the
firewall object, with an extension ".fw". It is a shell script that
flushes current policy, then loads new filter and nat rules.  

The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-o output.fw"
Specify output file name

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify working directory.  Compiler creates firewall activation
script in this directory.  If this parameter is missing, then all
files will be placed in the current working directory.

.IP "-v"
Be verbose: compiler prints diagnostic messages when it works.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.IP "-i"
When this option is present, the last argument on the command line is
supposed to be firewall object ID rather than its name

.IP "-x"
Generate debugging information while working. This option is intended
for debugging only and may produce lots of cryptic messages.

.SH NOTES

Support for ipfw was added in version 1.0.10 of Firewall Builder


.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1),
.BR fwb_pf(1)
.BR fwb_ipf(1)

.P
