.TH  fwb_ipt  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_ipt \- Policy compiler for iptables
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_ipt
.RB -f data_file.xml
.RB [-4]
.RB [-6]
.RB [-V]
.RB [-d wdir]
.RB [-i]
.RB [-o output.fw]
.RB [-O fw1_id,fw1_output.fw[,fw2_id,fw2_output.fw]]
.RB [-v]
.RB [-xc]
.RB [-xn N]
.RB [-xp N]
.RB [-xt]
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_ipt
is a firewall policy compiler component of Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). Compiler reads objects definitions and firewall
description from the data file specified with "-f" option and
generates resultant iptables script. The script is written to
the file with the name the same as the name of the firewall
object, plus extension ".fw".

The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-4"
Generate iptables script for IPv4 part of the policy. If any rules of
the firewall refer to IPv6 addresses, compiler will skip these rules.
Options "-4" and "-6" are exclusive. If neither option is used, compiler
tries to generate both parts of the script, although generation of
the IPv6 part is controlled by the option "Enable IPv6 support"
in the "IPv6" tab of the firewall object advanced settings dialog.
This option is off by default.

.IP "-6"
Generate iptables script for IPv6 part of the policy. If any rules of
the firewall refer to IPv6 addresses, compiler will skip these rules.

.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-o output.fw"
Specify output file name

.IP "-O fw1_id,fw1_output.fw[,fw2_id,fw2_output.fw]"
The argument is a comma separated list of firewall object IDs and
corresponding output file names. This option is used by fwbuilder GUI
while compiling firewall clusters.

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify working directory. Compiler creates file with iptables script
in this directory.  If this parameter is missing, then iptables script
will be placed in the current working directory.

.IP "-v"
Be verbose: compiler prints diagnostic messages when it works.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.IP "-i"
When this option is present, the last argument on the command line is
supposed to be firewall object ID rather than its name

.IP "-xc"
When output file name is determined automatically (i.e. flags -o or -O
are not present), the file name is composed of the cluster name and
member firewall name rather than just member firewall name. This is
used mostly for testing when the same member firewall object can be a
part of different clusters with different configurations.

.IP "-xt"
This flag makes compiler treat all fatal errors as warnings and
continue processing rules. Generated configuration script most likely
will be incorrect but will include error message as a comment; this
flag is used for testing and debugging.

.IP "-xp N"
Debugging flag: this causes compiler to print detailed description of
the policy rule number "N" as it precesses it, step by step.

.IP "-xn N"
Debugging flag: this causes compiler to print detailed description of
the NAT rule number "N" as it precesses it, step by step.

.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_ipf(1),
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
