.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH  fwb_pix  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_ipt \- Policy compiler for Cisco IOS ACL
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_iosacl
.B [-vV]
.B [-d wdir]
.B [-4]
.B [-6]
.B [-i]
.B -f data_file.xml
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_iosacl
is firewall policy compiler component of Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). Compiler reads objects definitions and firewall
description from the data file specified with "-f" option and
generates resultant Cisco IOS ACL configuration file. The configuration is
written to the file with the name the same as the name of the firewall
object, plus extension ".fw". Compiler generates extended access lists
for Cisco routers running IOS v12.x using "ip access-list <name>"
syntax. Compiler also generates "ip access-group" commands to
assign access lists to interfaces. Generated ACL configuration can
be uploaded to the router manually or using built-in installer in
the fwbuilder(1) GUI.

The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-4"
Generate iptables script for IPv4 part of the policy. If any rules of
the firewall refer to IPv6 addresses, compiler will skip these rules.
Options "-4" and "-6" are exclusive. If neither option is used, compiler
tries to generate both parts of the script, although generation of
the IPv6 part is controlled by the option "Enable IPv6 support"
in the "IPv6" tab of the firewall object advanced settings dialog.
This option is off by default.

.IP "-6"
Generate iptables script for IPv6 part of the policy. If any rules of
the firewall refer to IPv6 addresses, compiler will skip these rules.

.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify working directory. Compiler creates file with ACL
configuration in this directory.  If this parameter is missing, then
generated ACL will be placed in the current working directory.

.IP "-v"
Be verbose: compiler prints diagnostic messages when it works.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.IP "-i"
When this option is present, the last argument on the command line is
supposed to be firewall object ID rather than its name

.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_pix(1),
.BR fwb_ipfw(1),
.BR fwb_ipf(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1)
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
