.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH  fwb_pix  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_ipt \- Policy compiler for Cisco PIX
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_pix
.RB -f data_file.xml
.RB [-V]
.RB [-d wdir]
.RB [-i]
.RB [-v]
.RB [-xc]
.RB [-xt]
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_pix
is firewall policy compiler component of Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). Compiler reads objects definitions and firewall
description from the data file specified with "-f" option and
generates resultant Cisco PIX configuration file. The configuration is
written to the file with the name the same as the name of the firewall
object, plus extension ".fw".

The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify working directory. Compiler creates file with PIX
configuration in this directory.  If this parameter is missing, then
PIX configuration will be placed in the current working directory.

.IP "-v"
Be verbose: compiler prints diagnostic messages when it works.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.IP "-i"
When this option is present, the last argument on the command line is
supposed to be firewall object ID rather than its name

.IP "-xc"
When output file name is determined automatically (i.e. flags -o or -O
are not present), the file name is composed of the cluster name and
member firewall name rather than just member firewall name. This is
used mostly for testing when the same member firewall object can be a
part of different clusters with different configurations.

.IP "-xt"
This flag makes compiler treat all fatal errors as warnings and
continue processing rules. Generated configuration script most likely
will be incorrect but will include error message as a comment; this
flag is used for testing and debugging.

.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_ipf(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1)
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
