.\"-*- mode: nroff; tab-width: 4; -*-
.\"
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH  fwb_install  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_install \- Firewall policy installation and activation script
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_install
.B [-d wdir]
.B -f data_file.xml
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_install
is firewall policy installation and activation script for Firewall
Builder (see fwbuilder(1)).  This script transfers compiled 
rulesets via ssh to a firewall and activates them. Optionally it
transfers a backup of the .xml source file, too.
.PP
The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.
.PP
The firewall rules should allow ssh traffic to the firewall, or you
will lock yourself out.
.PP

.SH INSTALLATION

You should have a ssh and sshd installed and configured properly.
.PP
Make a public/private keypair using ssh-keygen tool, the public key
goes into ~$REMOTEUSER/.ssh/ on the firewall, $SSHIDENTITY locally
points to the private key. Protect your key with a good passphrase!
.PP
Tell fwbuilder to use the script: enter /home/vadim/Projects/fwb/fwbuilder/../usr//bin/fwb_install (a full
path and name for this script) in the "install script" entry field in
the firewall object dialog.
.PP
To customize the script you can adjust the following variables inside
of it :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B REMOTEDIR
Specifies where the firewall script or configuration file will be
placed on the firewall (default: "/etc/firewall")
.TP
.B REMOTEUSER
Specifies the user on the firewall allowed to set up the firewall rulesets
(default: "root")
.TP
.B DOXMLBACKUP
Specifies whether we want to store a backup copy of the .xml on the firewall
(default: "YES")
.TP
.B SSHIDENTITY
location of private ssh key (default: "${HOME}/.ssh/id_dsa")


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify working directory. Policy compilers create firewall
configurations and/or scripts in this directory.  If this parameter is
missing, then script looks in the current working directory.

.SH CAVEATS

The firewall rules should allow ssh traffic to the firewall, or you
will lock yourself out.

.PP
The script uses address of firewall's interface which is marked as
"management". The script aborts if there is no management interface.

.PP
There still is a depenency on the current DTD structure in that the
script assumes that all firewalls are always located in the tree
branch "Firewalls". This may change in the future; the script will
need to be updated then.

.PP
This script has been developed and tested for iptables firewall on
Linux systems. To the best of my knowledge, nobody used this script
for any other firewall type or OS, however it should work for any
firewall running on a Unix box where firewall configuration is
represented in a form of a shell script. On example is ipfw used on
FreeBSD or Mac OS X.

.PP
.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314

.SH AUTHOR

David Gullasch <xonox@web.de>, <gullasch@secunet.de>
Changes and corrections by Vadim Kurland <vadim@fwbuilder.org>

.SH DISCLAIMER

(K) 2001 by David Gullasch <xonox@web.de>, <gullasch@secunet.de> All
rights reversed. Copy what you like, but give credit and include this
note. Don't blame me when this script does not do what you want it to
- there is no bug-free software.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1),
.BR fwb_ipf(1),
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
