.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH  fwb_ipf  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwb_ipf \- Policy compiler for ipfilter
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwb_ipf
.B [-vVx]
.B [-d wdir]
.B [-o output.fw]
.B [-i]
.B -f data_file.xml
object_name

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwb_ipf
is a firewall policy compiler component of Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). This compiler generates code for ipfilter. Compiler
reads objects definitions and firewall description from the data file
specified with "-f" option and generates ipfilter configuration files
and firewall activation script.

All generated files have names that start with the name of the
firewall object. Firewall activation script has extension ".fw" and is
simple shell script that flushes current policy, loads new filter and
nat rules and then activates ipfilter.  IPFilter configuration file name
starts with the name of the firewall object, plus "-ipf.conf".  NAT
configuration file name also starts with the name of the firewall
object, plus "-nat.conf". For example, if firewall object has name
"myfirewall", then compiler will create three files: "myfirewall.fw",
"myfirewall-pf.conf", "myfirewall-nat.conf".

The data file and the name of the firewall objects must be specified
on the command line. Other command line parameters are optional.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-o output.fw"
Specify output file name

.IP "-d wdir"
Specify  working  directory.  Compiler  creates  firewall activation
script and ipfilter configuration files in this directory.  If this 
parameter is missing, then all files will be placed in the 
current working directory.

.IP "-v"
Be verbose: compiler prints diagnostic messages when it works.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.IP "-i"
When this option is present, the last argument on the command line is
supposed to be firewall object ID rather than its name

.IP "-x"
Generate debugging information while working. This option is intended
for debugging only and may produce lots of cryptic messages.

.SH NOTES

Support for ipf returned in version 1.0.1 of Firewall Builder

Supported features:


.IP o 
both ipf.conf and nat.conf files are generated

.IP o 
negation in policy rules

.IP o 
stateful inspection in individual rule can be turned off in rule
options dialog. By default compiler adds "keep state" or "modulate
state" to each rule with action 'pass'

.IP o 
rule options dialog provides a choice of icmp or tcp rst replies for
rules with action "Reject"

.IP o 
compiler adds flag "allow-opts" if match on ip options is needed

.IP o 
compiler can generate rules matching on TCP flags

.IP o 
compiler can generate script adding ip aliases for NAT rules using addresses
that do not belong to any interface of the firewall

.IP o 
compiler always adds rule "block quick all" at the very bottom of
the script to ensure "block all by default" policy even if the policy
is empty.

.IP o 
Address ranges in both policy and NAT



.PP
Features that are not supported (yet)

.IP o
negation in NAT

.IP o
custom services



.PP
Features that won't be supported (at least not anytime soon)

.IP o
policy routing



.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1),
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
