.TH  fwblookup  1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwblookup \- General purpose object lookup tool
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B fwblookup
.RB [-a attribute]
.RB [-rADILMNPTV]
.RB -f data_file.xml
object_id|tree_path_to_object

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwblookup
is a general purpose object lookup tool for Firewall Builder (see
fwbuilder(1)). This tool finds object in the data file specified with
"-f" option and prints its attributes requested via command line
options. Object to be found is designated by its ID or full tree path
given as an argument on the command line. This tool can be used in
scripts that need to be able to find and inspect objects in the XML
file, such as firewall policy installation script etc.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the data file to be processed.

.IP "-a atribute"
Print value of the XML attribute 'attribute'. If specified attribute
does not exist in the object, fwblookup prints an error message and
terminates. This is universal option that can find and print any
attribute in any object, provided it exists, however you need to know
full tree path to the object or its ID and correct name of the
attribute you want to print. This means that detailed knowledge of
Firewall Builder XML DTD is required. See below for some convenient
shortcut options. This option can be used only once on a command line;
if it is used multiple times, then only the last attribute is printed.

.IP "-A"
Print an address of the object. Since not all objects can have an
address, the program verifies type of the object and returns an error
if the object does not have an address.

.IP "-D"
Dump all the data available for the object. If option "-r" is also
used, dump recursively the object and all other objects in the tree
below it.

.IP "-I"
Print object's ID.

.IP "-l"
List all the objects located immediately under the given object in the
tree (its 'children') and print their names, IDs, path or type,
depending on the options -N, -I, -T or -P which can be used together
with -l.

.IP "-L"
Print interface label

.IP "-M"
Print management address. Only Host and Firewall objects can have
management address.

.IP "-N"
Print object's name

.IP "-P"
Print full tree path to the object, starting with a tree root
"FWobjectDatabase".

.IP "-r"
Dump or list the object and all other objects in the tree below
it (see "-l and -D")

.IP "-T"
Print objects's type name.

.IP "-V"
Print version number and quit.

.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwbuilder(1),
.BR fwbedit(1),

.P
