.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH fwbuilder 1 "" FWB "Firewall Builder"
.SH NAME
fwbuilder \- Multiplatform firewall configuration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B /usr/bin/fwbuilder
.RB [-f file.fwb]
.RB [-d]
.RB [-h]
.RB [-o file]
.RB [-P object_name]
.RB [-r]
.RB [-v]
 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B fwbuilder
is the Graphic User Interface (GUI) component of Firewall Builder. 

Firewall Builder consists of a GUI and set of policy 
compilers for various firewall platforms. It helps 
users maintain a database of objects and allows policy 
editing using simple drag-and-drop operations. GUI 
generates firewall description in the form of XML file,
which compilers then interpret and generate platform-specific
code. Several algorithms are provided for automated 
network objects discovery and bulk import of data. The 
GUI and policy compilers are completely independent, 
this provides for a consistent abstract model and the 
same GUI for different firewall platforms.

Firewall Builder supports firewalls based on iptables (Linux kernel
2.4.x and 2.6.x, see fwb_ipt(1)), ipfilter (variety of platforms
including *BSD, Solaris and others, see fwb_ipf(1)), pf (OpenBSD and
FreeBSD, see fwb_pf(1)), ipfw (FreeBSD and others), Cisco PIX (v6.x
and 7.x) and Cisco IOS extended access lists.


.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-f FILE"
Specify the name of the file to be loaded when program starts.

.IP "-r"
When this command line option is given in combination with -f file,
the program automatically opens RCS head revision of the file if file
is in RCS. If file is not in RCS, this option does nothing and the
file is opened as usual.

.IP "-d"
Turns on debug mode. Note that in this mode the program generates
lots of output on standard error. This is used for debugging.

.IP "-h"
Prints brief help message

.IP "-o file"
Specify the name of the file for the print output, see option "-P".

.IP "-P object_name"
Print rules and objects for the firewall object "object_name" and
immediately exit. The program does not go into interactive mode. Print
output will be placed in the file specified with "-o" option.  If file
name is not given with option "-o", print output is stored in the file
"print.pdf" in the current directory.


.SH FILES
.IP $HOME/.qt/firewallbuilder2rc
Fwbuilder v2.1 stores user preferences in this file.

.IP $HOME/.config/netcitadel.com/Firewall\ Builder.conf
Fwbuilder v3.0 stores user preferences in this file.

.SH URL
Firewall Builder home page is located at the following URL:
.B http://www.fwbuilder.org/

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs using bug tracking system on SourceForge: 

.BR http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=5314&atid=105314


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwblookup(1),
.BR fwb_ipt(1),
.BR fwb_ipf(1),
.BR fwb_pf(1)

.P
